How many ways class can be related with each other?
There are 2 ways are there
1. Inheritance
	1.1 Generalization
	1.2 Specialization
	1.3 Realization
	
2. Association
	2.1 Association
	2.2 Aggregation
	2.3 Composition
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Association
Association is another form of achieving reusability across the classes, here we declare one class as an attribute inside another class and using the reference of another class we reuse the functionality of another class. There are 3 forms of Association are there
1. Association
2. Aggregation
3. Composition

There are few characteristics of Association relationship are there
1. Directionality
2. Cardinality
3. Ownership
4. Lifetime 

1. Directionality
In RDBMS relationships, only one-side of the primary key is written as foreign key in another table which is called "uni-directional" relationship. by writing one-side of the primary key as foreign key we can derive the relationship from both the tables.
For eg.. 
if we write Person table person_no primary key column in address table as foreign key, we can derive a person has which address from person table and we can even identify an address belongs to which person as well.
	
When it comes to the class relationship, these can be either
1. uni-directional
2. bi-directional 
relationship

if we want to identity for a person what is his address, we need to declare Address as an attribute within the Person class. but it doesnt help us in identifying from an Address, this Address belongs to which person unless we have association on other side aswell.
If we want to derive the relationship from both the ends we need to establish bi-directional association and depends on the usage.
	
	
2. Cardinality
To establish relationship between the classes we need to derive the cardinality of the association. The Cardinality refers to how many objects are in relationship with my class is called "Cardinality". The Cardinality of the association should be derived always from both the sides of the relationship to establish assocation between the classes.
	
	
3. Ownership
ownership defines who is the relationship owner of that association. 
if we look at our example, person ownes the address (person is the owner of the relationship since an address belongs to a person). but address doesnt owns an person
here the relationship owner is : person

but every association may have an relationship owner or may not have an relationship owner, depends on the participating classes in association

4. Lifetime
Lifetime of the relationship indicates the existence of the objects. when 2 classes are in association relationship, when one of the object in relationship dies the other associated object may die or may not. this is called lifetime


Letter  [delivers] Postman













	









































	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	