How many ways we can establish relationship between the tables in RDBMS?
There are 3 types of relationships are there
1. one-to-one
2. one-to-many / many-to-one
3. many-to-many

3. many-to-many
In many-to-many relationship both the sides the records of the tables are in relationship with multiple records of the other table, then the tables are said to be in many-to-many relationship

by writing primary key column of one table as foregin key column in another table, we establish only one-to-many relationship, so inorder to represent many-to-many relationship we always need third-table (this table is called relationship table)
within the third-table we need to declare both the tables primary key as foreign keys and composite primary keys as well.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
UML Class Modelling (or) Relationship between the classes
A class might be in relationship with another class for #2 reasons
1. for reusing the functionality of another class
2. for the data being reused aspart of another class

How to establish relationship between the classes?
There are 2 ways we can establish relationship between the classes
1. Inheritance
Inheritance is a mechanism/principle through which a class can extend from another class, in reusing the functionality/data of another class. when we inherit a class from another class, all the members and methods of other class will be part of our class thus establishing "IS-A" relationship between the classes.

again the Inheritance can be broadly classified into 3 types
1. generalization
2. specialization
3. realization
	
2. Association
Association is another form or way of achieving the reusability of functionality/data of another class. In case of assocation we declare a class as an attribute in another class, instantiate the object and use the functionality or data of another class through that object, since a class holds the object of another class in reusing the other class we said these classes are in "HAS-A" relationship

There are 3 forms of assocation relationship are there
1. Association
2. Aggregation
3. Composition



	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	