There are 6 types of databases are there
1. Hierarchial database
2. Network database
3. Relational database
4. Object oriented database
5. No-Sql or Semi-Structured database
6. Un-Structured or Object Storage database

#5. No-Sql or Semi-Structured database
---------------------------------------
In the modern era people are using software applications for various different purposes in a day-to-day life activity. So the type of information being generated by these software applications are of variant in nature. 
For eg.. a social network applications produces the data which is not structured in nature and doesnt have any relationship between the data, each data produced these applications may have different fields of information which differs with other information produced.
	
Similar consider an medical research lab that would be conducting various different types of research and has record the outcomes of their investigations permanently on the database. given if this information has to be captured, it is not ideal to be persisted as part relational database management system.
Because each test/investigation they conducted produces various different types of parameters/data that cannot be recorded in a relation table of fixed columns and even to capture and persist such data we need to endup in writing complex processing logic in managing the data.
	
Most of these data produced will not have any relationship as well, persisting such application data in a relational database management system doesnt have any value-add on top of it we run into challenges:

1. complexity in designing the schema model to hold the data
2. programmers has to endup in writing complex logic in persisting the data into the relational tables
3. for the sake of correlating the data we need to rely on relationship columns where these relationship columns doesnt have any meaning
4. The cost of processing the data is very high, since the data is scattered across different tables un-necessary joins has to be made in fetching the data which eventually results in poor performance
5. the queries quite complex and query processing time in filtering the data and fetching the data becomes quite high
6. Unnecessary storage cost in holding the data in relational database management system

lab_report (20000)
lab_report_no  patient_nm   test_date    doctor_nm  amount wbc  rbc  platelets
1              james        10/01/2022   stephen    1200
	
select wbc from lab_report where lab_report_no = 1
	
	
lab_report_parameters (6 lacs records)
label_report_no  parameter_nm   parameter_value  reference_range
1                wbc            100              80 - 200
1                rbc            200
	
From the above we can understand storing semi-structured data in a relational database management system endups in huge problems

To overcome in handling such semi-structured and process them easily no-sql or semi-structured database management systems are introduced like
1. mongodb
2. couchdb
3. cassendra
4. oracle bigdata
5. neo4j

all of these databases are built ontop of hadoop filesystem and are designed to be scalable and produces higher throughput




	















































	







































