There are multiple ORM Technology supported frameworks are available in java
1. Hibernate Framework
2. EclipseLink
3. MyBatis

Later on Sun Microsystem has provided jpa api in-support ORM technology as part of java language.
JPA stands java persistence api, for this api Hibernate Framework has provided implementation along with sun implementation as well called jpa ri (reference implementation) implementation.

There are 2 parts of Hibernate Framework
1. Hibernate Core [Hibernate Framework]
2. Hibernate EntityManager (implementation of jpa api)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
How to establish relationship between the tables in relational database management system?
We store the data interms of tables defined with columns. not all the data of the application can be stored in one single table as it throws us into maintainability problems.

Breakdown the data and distribute across multiple tables, use normalization technics in identify the tables to store the data. 

since the data has broken down and placed across multiple tables how can we establish relationship between the data?
In order to establish relationship between the data across the tables
	1. each table must and should have an primary key with which we uniquely identify a record of information if it wants to participate in relationship
	2. write the primary key column of a table as a referential column in another table which is called foreign key column through which we can identify what records of data are related together across the tables
	
By writing primary key and foreign key across the tables we can derive 3 types of relationships between the tables
1. one-to-one relationship
2. one-to-many or many-to-one relationship
3. many-to-many relationship


How do we derive the type of relationship we should establish between the tables?
it purely depends on the business assumptions on which we are storing the data and we cannot derive the relationships by looking at data or table names.
		
How to establish the relationship between the tables?	

































	





























