What is association relationship?
A class can reuse few/all of the traits of another class using association relationship, it is an another dimension of resuability. Association establishes HAS-A relationship between the classes.
	
There 2 characteristics of association relationship
1. Cardinality
2. Directionality
3. Ownership (optional)
	
	
#1. Cardinality
How many objects of a class is in association with the other class objects is indicated through cardinality. To derive the cardinality of the relationship we need to read the relationship both the sides.

#2. Directionality 
Directionality indicates which side we have represented the association. An association can be either uni-directional or bi-directional. In case of uni-directional only one side of the relationship is established. In bi-directional both the sides the objects are associated.
Directionality is decided based on the usage of the classes within our application

1..1	
class Account {
	Address address;
}	

1..*
class Address {	
}

#3. ownership
optionally an association relationship can have ownership indicates who owns the relationship
Based on the above characteristics we can derive 3 forms of association
1. association
2. aggregation
3. composition

of the above 3 the highest degree of association is "composition".
	
How to derive whether 2 give classes are in which form of association relationship?
It is derived based on 2 factors
1. ownership of relationship
2. lifetime/dependency between the objects

1. association
if a class holds the object of another class where there is no ownership and lifetime between the classes then those classes are said to be in association relationship
	
2. aggregation
if a class holds the object of another class where there is ownership of the relationship but there is no lifetime dependency between the classes then those are said to be in aggregation relationship
	
3. composition
if a class holds the object of another class where there is an ownership and lifetime dependencies between the classes then those are said to be in composition relationship
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	































