There are 3 types of relationships we can establish between the records of the tables in relational database management system.
1. one-to-one
2. one-to-many / many-to-one
3. many-to-many

1. one-to-many / many-to-one
If a record in one table is in relationship with multiple records of another table, then those tables are said to be in one-to-many relationship. Similarly from the otherside the record in other table is in relationship with only one record in primary key table

How to establish one-to-many relationship?
Inorder to establish any relationship we need to write primary key of one table as foreign key in another table. Incase of one-to-many relationship always the primary key is written as foreign key in many side of the relationship table.
	
Always the relationship between the data across the tables are derived based on business assumptions only, and these assumptions might differ from business to business. So to identify the relationship between the tables we need to take business assumptions into account.
	
For eg.. as per our assumption a associate can work in one project and a project can have multiple associates working on it, from this statement the relationship between project and associate is one project can have many associates working but an associate can one only in one project which is one-to-many and many-to-one relationship

So to establish relationship between the tables we need to write project_no primary key as foreign key in associate table indicating an associate is working on which project
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
one-to-one
If a record in one table is in relationship with only one record of other table, then the tables are said to be in one-to-one relationship
There are #2 ways of representing or establishing one-to-one relationship between the tables.
1. direct one-to-one relationship
2. one-to-many as one-to-one relationship

2. one-to-many as one-to-one relationship















































































